Board of Supervisors Chair Christine Smith assured Rappahannock citizens in a video update this morning that the county government is doing all in its power to keep them safe and informed during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis.

The county wants “to assure you that the BOS is working hard on your behalf,” the Piedmont District supervisor said in a live-stream broadcast from the county courthouse (a video of the briefing is posted for viewing at rappnews.com).

Others addressing the public today were Rappahannock County Administrator Garrey Curry and Rappahannock Schools Superintendent Dr. Shannon Grimsley. Standing a safe distance in the background were Rappahannock County Sheriff Connie Compton and Rappahannock Emergency Services Coordinator Kevin Williams.

The administrator, who two weeks ago declared a state of emergency in the county, stressed that while there is currently no confirmed COVID-19 in Rappahannock — the only county in Northern Virginia without cases — “don’t take comfort in that.”

Coronavirus test results, Curry pointed out, are often delayed, thus the daily COVID-19 updates by the Rappahannock-Rapidan Health District are based on data anywhere from  “7 to 9 days old.”

One of the residents who submitted questions to Curry in advance of the briefing wondered whether trash and recycling disposal was an “essential” service under the governor’s stay-at-home order?

The administrator replied that trash disposal is allowed, however he requested that Rappahannock citizens “limit excursions” to the county’s two refuse centers.

In addition, he encouraged residents to promptly depart the refuse centers upon disposal of trash and recyclables — and under no circumstances socialize with others using the sites.

Another resident asked about the availability of COVID-19 testing in the county. Curry stressed that anybody who exhibits symptoms should immediately contact their physicians and follow their guidance.

Curry stressed that the county government is continuing to function during the crisis, but offices for the most part are closed entirely to the public. Clicking into a special red banner at the top of the county’s website will provide further information on COVID-19 procedures, including how to communicate with various offices.

Speaking on behalf of the schools, Grimsley said if any young people in the county ages 18-and-under — regardless of enrollment status — are in need of a meal or food at this time they should call 540-671-0153.

As for distant school lessons that will begin on April 13, Grimsley said “15 places” in the county have now been identified as having sufficient — and safe — drive-up “Wi-Fi”  for students who do not have internet access at home.

Signs will be posted at each designated location, set aside in advance for students, by the school system for proper identification. For information on the 15 “Wi-Fi” locations please phone 540-227-0023.

Just as importantly, Grimsley said RCPS is standing by with “pre-loaded devices” to lend to students who do not have computers at home. Better yet, each device has been pre-loaded with the appropriate lessons by the county’s teachers. Anybody in need of a computer device should call 540-671-1491. 

In addition, the superintendent said those within the school community, parents included, who are experiencing high levels of stress or anxiety at this time and might be in need of consultation to please reach out to the RCPS counselor at 540-683-0437.

Also, for essential employees in the county who are continuing to work through the pandemic, child care will be available very shortly, according to Grimsley. Contact the school district, its office hours 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., at 540-227-0023.

Finally, Supervisor Smith said time will tell how many visitors descend on the county this weekend, which has been overwhelmed by motorists and motorcyclists for two weekends in a row. 

Shenandoah National Park trailheads reached through Rappahannock County are now closed by the National Park Service to help alleviate crowds in the county, but at this time the park remains open to visitors — despite Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam’s stay-at-home order.

Smith said any business in the county that experiences crowd issues this weekend — including those not practicing social distancing guidelines or size limits — should contact the Rappahannock County Sheriff’s Office.